Index
1. Introduction
2. Objectives
3. ProblemStatement
4. Hardware/ Software Requirements
Introduction
The thirst for learning, upgrading technical skills and applying the concepts in 
real life environment at a fast pace is what the industry demands from IT 
professionals today. However busy work schedules, far-flung locations, 
unavailability of convenient time-slots pose as major barriers when it comes to 
applying the concepts into realism.  And hence the need to look out for 
alternative means of implementationinthe formof ladderedapproach.
The above truly pose as constraints especially for our students too! With their 
busy schedules, it is indeed difficult for our students to keep up with the genuine 
and constant need for integrated application which can be seen live especially 
so in the field of IT education where technology can change on the spur of a 
moment. Well,technologydoes come to ourrescue at suchtimes!!
Keeping the above in mind and in tune with our constant endeavour to use 
Technology in our training model, we at Aptech have thought of revolutionizing 
the way our students learn and implement the concepts using tools themselves 
by providing a live and synchronous eProject learning environment!
So whatis this eProject?
eProject is a step by step learning environment that closely simulates the 
classroom and Lab based learning environment into actual implementation. It is 
a project implementation at your fingertips!! An electronic, live juncture on the 
machine that allows youto
● Practicestepbystepi.e. ladderedapproach.
● Buildalargermorerobustapplication.
● Usageofcertainutilities inapplications designedbyuser.
● Singleprogramtounifiedcode leading to acomplete application.
● Learnimplementationofconcepts inaphasedmanner.
● Enhanceskills andaddvalue.
● Workonreallifeprojects.
● Give a real life scenario and help to create applications more 
complicatedanduseful.
● Mentoring throughemailsupport.
The students at the centre are expected to complete this eProject and send 
complete documentation with source code 
to eProjects Team
Looking forwardto a positive response fromyourend!!
Objectives of the project
The Objective of this program is to give a sample project to work on real life 
projects. These applications help youbuilda largermore robust application.
The objective is not to teach you concepts but to provide you with a real life 
scenario and help you create 
applications using the tools.
You can revise them before youstart withthe project.
It is veryessentialthat a student has a clearunderstanding of the subject.
Kindly get back to eProjects Team in case of any doubts regarding the 
applicationorits objectives.
Problem Statement
Problem statement is attached separately in a file “
Courier Management System
Standards plan:
Everycode blockmust have comments.
The logic of the program needs to be explained. Prope
”
r documentation should be 
maintained.
Complete Project Report along with synopsis, code and documentation should be 
prepared.
Documentation:
No project is complete without documentation. In fact, it is one of the most important 
activities during the development of a project. The documentation of an ideal project 
will be inthe formof a project report comprising of the following documents:
Certificate of Completion.
Table of Contents.
ProblemDefinition.
Customer Requirement Specification.
Project Plan.
E-R Diagrams.
Algorithms.
GUIStandards Document.
Interface DesignDocument.
TaskSheet.
Project ReviewandMonitoring Report.
Unit Testing CheckList.
Final Check List.
Hardware/ Software Requirements
Hardware
● A minimum computer system that will help you access all the tools in the courses is a 
Pentium166 orbetter
● 128 Megabytes ofRAMor better
Operating System
● LINUX / Windows 2000 Server (orhigherif possible)
Software
● PHP
● MySQL
● PERL
● Apache