Courier Management System
Table of Contents
Introduction ……………………………………………………………………………...02
Proposed Scenario …………………………………………………………………….02
System Module ………………………………………………………………………….03
Module Description ……………………………………………………………………04
Introduction:
Courier management system is currently handled manually by the organisation and facing 
various challenges in maintaining records and providing information to it’s customers. 
Tracking and handling of couriers is becoming tedious for the organisation.
Proposed Solution:
Courier management system is a management software designed by considering various 
factors in courier billing system. The proposed web app will help to manage customer 
information, package details, generate reports, app billing.  Courier management web 
application will be a comprehensive and complete application will be able to manage all its 
operations and also the tracking and manage delivery info all registered consignments or 
packages, manage customer related information. The web app provide necessary info of 
status. Admin will update the details of both sender and receiver include status of booked 
package or consignment. User can tracking the courier through online site.
System Modules:
Admin
● Login
● Newcourier
● Viewallcourier details
● SendSMS–Fromto
● SenddeliverySMS
● Update/deletecourier
● Createagent
● Manageagent
● Managecustomerdetails
● Statuscount
● Downloadreportfor shipment
Agent
● Login
● Newcourier
● Viewallcourier details
● SendSMSFromto
● SenddeliverySMS
● Statusofbranch
● Downloadreportfrombranch
User
● Register
● Login
● Trackconsignmentnumber
● Viewstatus
● Printstatus
Module Description
● AdminLogin
oAdmin will have his/her own login details (username, password) to access the 
system
● CreateBill–Admin, Agent
oAdmin can create a Courier Bill after logging in. Bills contain the details of sender, 
receiver, courier type, delivery date and Courier Company.
● Updatebill–Admin, Agent
oThey can also update the Bill with the entries and if there is any modification. Agent 
can view the list of details of his location only.
● ManageCustomerdetails
oAdmin can manage all the Customer Details in a separate and secured Database
● Reporting
oReports of all the Bill can be viewed by the admin of the system
● Logout
oAt last they can logout if they have done with their actions on the database.
● Admin&AgentDashboard
oStatus Counts
●View total status count for shipment, in progress, delivered.
●Admin will view all location status counts.
●Agent can view only from or to location of his branch.
oAdd Shipment
●NewCourier
oManage Shipment
oPrint Shipment
●User can print tracking details
oDownload Report (XLSX)
●Date Wise
●City Wise
● AdminDashboard
oAdd Agent
●Can view only “from or to” location
oCreate Agent city wise login
oManage Customer
●Search
● UserLogin
oTrack Shipment
●User can search using consignment tracking details
oShipment status
oPrint
●User can print tracking details